---
title: keymap 2
created: 2026-01-27T01:55:32+08:00
updated: 2026-01-27T01:55:32+08:00
tags: ["keyboard"]
---

Most criticisms of Homerow Mods stem from the fact that it introduces the more complex issue of "timing," whereas its original intention was simply to solve the physical problem of "distance." I don’t want to discuss that today, because it’s a trade-off, and one that many people accept, which is fine.

I feel the more serious issue is that it gives keyboard users an illusion: "I’ve put my modifiers on the home row, now I am invincible!" But how you arrange modifiers, or your keymap in general, might not actually be the problem. I believe the direction we should be looking in is whether the very act of "holding down one (or more) keys while pressing another" is reasonable in the first place. Going a step further, people should focus on how to control programs more comfortably, rather than focusing on how to arrange the shortcuts composed of modifiers used to control them.

My initial train of thought went like this:

1.  Modifiers are hard to press in their original positions, and this is merely due to historical reasons.
2.  Moving modifiers to the home row to create Homerow Mods solves problem #1.
3.  Are we destined to "Hold + Tap" for the rest of our lives? → I started using `&sk`.
4.  What task are we actually trying to accomplish?

It turns out that the endpoint of this route is the question that should have been considered first. This is, of course, a User Interface Design problem, but right now we aren't designing the software, we are trying to control it. Just look at VSCode’s `C-S-grave` (Ctrl+Shift+Backtick). Like what am I doing?